# Part A: Linked List Drawings

## Insert

Assuming the new value belongs between data2 and data3, the new node is inserted at that position to keep the list sorted.

Before:
data1 ⇄ data2 ⇄ data3 ⇄ data4

After:
data1 ⇄ data2 ⇄ data ⇄ data3 ⇄ data4

After that, the pointers will be arranged like this:

```text
data2.next = data
data.prev = data2
data.next = data3
data3.prev = data
```

The front pointer still points to data1, and the back pointer still points to data4.


## Remove

The node containing data2 is removed from the list.

Before:
data1 ⇄ data2 ⇄ data3 ⇄ data4

After:
data1 ⇄ data3 ⇄ data4

The following pointers are changed:

```text
data1.next = data3
data3.prev = data1
data2.next = None
data2.prev = None
```

The front pointer still points to data1, and the back pointer still points to data4.


## Is Present

The search starts at the front and checks each node. It first checks data1 and then checks data2. Since data2 is found, the function returns True.

data1 → data2(Found)

The list and all pointers remain unchanged.



# Part C: Complexity Analysis

Let n represent the number of nodes stored in the linked list.

## insert(self, data) — O(n)

The insert function may need to move through the list to find the correct sorted position for the new value. In the worst case scenario, the new value can be inserted at the back of the list, so the function checks all n nodes. After the correct position is found, connecting the new node requires only a few pointer changes, which takes constant time. Therefore, the overall time complexity of insert is O(n).

## remove(self, data) — O(n)

The remove function searches through the list to find the node containing the requested data. In the worst case scenario, the value is at the back of the list or is not present, so all n nodes may need to be checked. Once the node is found, removing it requires only a few pointer changes. Therefore, the overall time complexity of remove is O(n).

## is_present(self, data) — O(n)

The is_present function searches through the nodes until it finds the requested value or reaches the end of the list. In the worst case scenario, it may need to check every node. Since the list is sorted, the function may sometimes stop early when it reaches a value larger than the requested value. However, its worst-case time complexity is still O(n).

## __len__(self) — O(1)

The linked list stores its current number of values in a size variable. The __len__ function only returns this stored value and does not need to move through the list. Therefore, its time complexity is O(1).

## Complexity summary
Function	     Time complexity
insert(data)	    O(n)
remove(data)	    O(n)
is_present(data)	O(n)
__len__()	        O(1)
